Ι Ν TRODUCTION xvii

of the Greeks. As Greek culture came to prevail at

’ Rome, a tendency arose among the RomanS, who

recognized and paid homage to the superior attain-
ments and the matchless literature os the Greeks, to
seek analogies between their own history and that of
Greece and to look for Greek ancestors of Italian
⁴families and Greek founders of Italian towns with the

> same persistency that to-day certain persons seek to
ζ identify our own nation with the lost ten tribeS. With
· the aid of Greek preceptorS, honest or otherwise, this

process of ancestor-hunting had gone so far that by
the time of Virgil the theory of Trojan origin was
familiar and generally accepted. It had, moreover,
acquired a special importance with the rise to power
of the Julian family in the person of Julius Caesar
and his adopted son, the emperor Augustus For

.‚ this family claimed descent from Iulus, the son of

Aeneas,

In this legend Virgil found the one theme that
would serve his purpose. It dealt with the origins of
Rome, while it also enabled him to sing the great-
ness of his sovereign and patron, in whom he with so
many of his contemporaries saw the regenerator, the
second founder of the Roman state. It enabled him
to link up the heroic legends of Greece with the early
legends of Rome, and in his hands assumed a wider
significance and a more definitely Roman character.

³ He took the Homeric poems as his model. Roughly

speaking, the first six books of the Aeneid, describing

’ the wanderings of AeneaS‚ may be regarded as a

Roman counterpart of the Odyssey, the last six, de-
scribing his coming to Italy and his conquest of a

